libsiphon-http(3) -- HTTP pull parser
=====================================



## SYNPOSIS

**\#include <siphon/siphon.h>**

void<br>
**sp_http_init_request** (SpHttp \*p);

void<br>
**sp_http_init_response** (SpHttp \*p);

void<br>
**sp_http_reset** (SpHttp \*p);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_http_next** (SpHttp \*p, const void \*restrict buf, size_t len);

bool<br>
**sp_http_is_done** (const SpHttp \*p);

void<br>
**sp_http_print** (const SpHttp \*p, const void \*restrict buf, FILE \*out);



## DESCRIPTION

The HTTP functions are used to parse and HTTP requests and responses. The HTTP
module is a pull parser that does not make any memory allocations, allowing
the caller fine control over the memory use and continuation of the parser.

The parser is accelerated when compiled to run on systems supporting SSE 4.2.

### sp_http_init_request (SpHttp \*p)

Initialize the parser to read an HTTP request. The parser, `p`, can be in any
state at the time of initialization.

### sp_http_init_response (SpHttp \*p)

Initialize the parser to read an HTTP response. The parser, `p`, can be in any
state at the time of initialization.

### sp_http_reset (SpHttp \*p)

Re-initialize the parser the the state. This will keep the parser in either a
request or response state.

### sp_http_next (SpHttp \*p, const void \*restrict buf, size_t len)

Parses the next token in the input. A value less than 0 will be returned to
indicate an error. Otherwise, `p->type` will contain the value type that was
matched and the return value indicates the number of bytes consumed. The next
call to this function expects `buf` to start this many bytes furthur. It is
up to the caller to advance the buffer. This may be accomplished through a
byte offset, memmove(3), or any other scheme that ensure the condition is met.

If `p->type` is `SP_HTTP_NONE`, than more information must be read into
the buffer before parsing can resume. Repeatedly calling next while in this
state will trigger an `SP_HTTP_ETOOSHORT` error.

See [ERRORS][] for information on possible errors returned.

### sp_http_is_done (const SpHttp \*p)

Checks if the parser is in a done state. It is safe to call `sp_http_next` while
in a done state, so it is important to check this to identify a completed request
or response.

### sp_http_print (const SpHttp \*p, const void \*restrict buf, FILE \*out)

A utility function to print the value currently matched in the parser. The
`buf` is expected to be in the same state as when `sp_http_next` was called.
The value, if any, will be written to `out`.



## ERRORS

When calling `sp_http_next` one of the following errors may be returned:

* `SP_HTTP_ESYNTAX`:
  The byte sequence passed could not be parsed as valid HTTP

* `SP_HTTP_ESIZE`:
  A value length exceeds the maximum allowed by the parser. This could be the
  request URI or header field or value. The size limits are set at compile time
  of the library.

* `SP_HTTP_ESTATE`:
  The internal parser state is not valid. This typically occurs from externally
  changing the parser intentionally or as a result of a buffer over flow.

* `SP_HTTP_ETOOSHORT`:
  The parser failed to parse a value do to too little data. The parser allows
  for several passes before triggering this error. This error usually indicates
  a stalled or malicious input.



## EXAMPLE

```C
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <siphon/siphon.h>

static int fd = STDIN_FILENO;
static char buf[9192]; // buffer to read into
static size_t end = 0; // last byte position in the buffer
static size_t off = 0; // offset into the buffer

// reads more from fd into buffer
static void read_more (void);

// reads raw body bytes from the buffer and/or socket
static void read_raw (size_t len);

int
main (void)
{
	SpHttp p;
	sp_http_init_request (&p);

	while (!sp_http_is_done (&p)) {
		ssize_t rc = sp_http_next (&p, buf+off, end-off);
		// TODO: handle parser errors gracefully
		if (rc < 0) sp_exit (rc, EXIT_FAILURE);

		// could not parse a token so read more
		if (rc == 0) {
			read_more ();
			continue;
		}

		// TODO: do something with the token
		sp_http_print (&p, buf+off, stdout);

		// mark the used range of the buffer
		off += rc;

		// handle body values
		if (p.type == SP_HTTP_BODY_START) {
			if (!p.as.body_start.chunked) {
				read_raw (p.as.body_start.content_length);
			}
		}
		else if (p.type == SP_HTTP_BODY_CHUNK) {
			read_raw (p.as.body_chunk.length);
		}
	}

	return 0;
}

void
read_more (void)
{
	if (off == end) {
		// nothing to move so reset
		end = off = 0;
	}
	else if (end > sizeof (buf) / 2) {
		// reclaim buffer space if more than half is used
		memmove (buf, buf+off, end-off);
		end -= off;
		off = 0;
	}

	// read more at the end of the buffer
	ssize_t n = read (fd, buf+end, sizeof (buf) - end);
	if (n < 0) sp_exit (errno, EXIT_FAILURE);

	// push out end position
	end += n;
}

void
read_raw (size_t len)
{
	while (len > 0) {
		// only process the amount in the buffer
		size_t amt = len;
		if (amt > end - off) amt = end - off;

		// read more if nothing is availble
		if (amt == 0) {
			read_more ();
			continue;
		}

		// write out the raw bytes
		fwrite (buf+off, 1, amt, stdout);
		fflush (stdout);

		len -= amt; // update number of raw bytes remaining
		off += amt; // update buffer offset position
	}
}
```

